Hey welcome back! In this video we're going to take a look at MonoDevelop for the first time!
So, if you've closed Unity in your enthusiasm, no problem, just re-open
it! Let's go into our project we created, Number Wizard, which you should be able to
find. If you're having trouble, maybe File and Open Project will
help you. OK, and remember we saved that scene
Game. If you didn't, then File, Save Scene, and let's just have that Game scene,
just so we're ready for later on. Anyway, we're talking about MonoDevelop, so what you need to do
is create your script. Remember, in the diagram we drew before we showed you that we will always create our
scripts from inside Unity. So, let's do it this way, this time! Right-click in
Assets. So, Project tab at the bottom. Then, Assets, right-click
and create C# Script for me. Call it
Number Wizard. All one word, capital N, capital W, no spaces.
OK, NumberWizard.cs. So now,
Unity has written a file called NumberWizard.cs to the file system.
In fact, let me show you that, Reveal in Finder. Here we go! Wherever you saved it, your NumberWizard
project has got a load of stuff you don't have to worry about, but it has an Assets folder, and within
the Assets folder, which is what you see over in Unity, you have a Game.unity which is
your scene or level and then we have a NumberWizard.cs. O.K.
So, it's created the file, just like we talked about. Double-click on it and for the first time...
[Sings] For the first time in... OK,
here it comes! And there it is, you have your NumberWizard.cs
script open in  Monowizard, so, in NumberWizard
OK cool! So, I wanted to show you around MonoDevelop a little
bit. It should look like this, if it doesn't then it's your View Settings. You want to be in the Solution
View. On the left-hand side, I also have a pad open called the
Solution Pad. You don't necessarily need that. Mmm So, here's a few things
that are going to make our lives easier. Before we do anything, let's go to MonoDevelop
Preferences, and I want to go and help you scroll down and
find the bit that talks about Auto-Indentation in MonoBehavior,
which is under Text Editor, Behavior, and then,
Indentation Mode. And I want to set that to
Automatic, rather than smart. Alright, this is a minor thing,
but it's going to make your life a little bit easier, when you start typing code, with regards to how it
indents, which means how much white space it puts in. OK,
so that's the Auto-Indent mode! That's fantastic! Now, the other thing to get your eye in for with
MonoDevelop is pretty obvious, but these things are line numbers, 1 to 16. We will
be using those a lot later, particularly when we see an error we're going to dive into the script and
look at the line numbers. So, they'll just continue to add in every time you add a new code line.
Mmm another thing we're going to be doing is moving the indentation
of code around, so this is correctly indented,
at the moment. But there are a couple of ways you can do that, you can go to the line in question...
by the way, you can do all of the coding without the mouse. In fact, I'm going to be doing that to
try and keep the mouse out of the way for you. So, the Cursor Keys will go up and down and left and right,
as usual. If you want to indent or outdent a line, hold down Command
or Control, depending on whether you're using a Mac or PC, and use the left and right square brackets,
and each time you do that, it'll bring that line in. A shift, Holding down Shift will allow you to
select a block, and then, again with the Command or Control and the brackets will
indent and outdent your code. Another way to do that is to go to the start of the line and push the Tab
Key, or you could do Shift Tab to go back, but you have to be at the start of the line then.
By the way, please do not use spaces, use Tabs. Do not go 1, 2, 3, 4, you may
notice it's 4 spaces. We don't want you using spaces, use Tabs.
OK, so final keyboard shortcut you may want to know about is holding down the  ALT Key
and going left and right, and then, you can go one word at a time, that could be handy.
There's actually tons and tons of keyboard shortcuts in MonoDevelop,
so why don't I just show you where to go and look for them and you can
decide what to use. Each one takes a little bit of time to develop the habit. So MonoDevelop,
Menu, and then Preferences on the Mac. On a PC it's Tools and Options,
and then, you will find Key Bindings, and that will show you all
the existing Key Bindings and new ones you can create yourself, if you want.
So basically, the take away from this video is, using keybaord
shortcuts in MonoDevelop is going to save you a load of time, so start building
the habit of using them one at a time, and then, you will be
in [Laughs] code nirvana. See you later!